import BasePage from "../components/base-page"

# Mapboard GIS manifesto

Maps are a central part of the way geologists communicate their understanding
of the natural world. At their best, geological maps go beyond recording the
type of rocks at a specific location to express hypotheses about the
organization of rocks in time and space. Building a geological map is an
interpretive process: capturing the relationship between rock units,
structures, and the landscape is a formational challenge for trainee
geologists and a key skill of professionals in the field.

## The analog mapping process

Traditionally, geologic mapping has been done on paper map sheets — printed
topographic basemaps or aerial/satellite photos. Field sheets are taped to a
cardboard or plexiglass mapboard and the map is sketched in pencil as the
picture evolves. Later, back in the lab, mapping is transferred onto drafting
vellum using felt-tipped pens. This master copy is then sent to a
professional printer (often a state or national geologic survey) for
production.

The analog mapping process contains a lot of overhead — preparing and
printing basemaps at the requisite scale can be difficult and expensive,
drawing the map is time-consuming work, and map production is the province of
well-resourced organizations. These shortcomings, along with an increasing
need to align mapping with digital outputs (e.g., satellite imagery and
elevation models) and final requirement for digital map outputs, has
increased the role of geospatial information systems (GIS) in geologic map
production over the last several decades.

## The benefits of digital methods
 
GIS provides the ability
to work easily with large datasets and 

## Why haven't we used 

export default BasePage